---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2022
lastupdated: "2022-12-07"

keywords:

subcollection: atracker

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Event types
{: #event_types}

In {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}}, you can differentiate events by scope as global or location-based events, and by operational impact as management or data events.
{: shortdesc}

Events can be classified as `management` or `data` events.

Data events access or modify customer data. Management events report on operational actions on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resources.
{: note}


Events can also be classified as `global` or `location-based`. The scope of the event determines where you monitor events.

Global events report user actions in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} whose scope expands beyond a single region. Location-based events are local to the location where a subscribed cloud service is hosted.
{: note}



## Management events
{: #event_types_management}

**Management events** report on the following actions:
* Actions that are generated when an API call reads or changes the state of a resource and does not access or modify customer data
* Actions on non-API actions that report DevOps actions on resources in the account

* Report activity on CRUD operational platform actions, for example:

    CRUD user management actions

    Changes to account configuration settings

    CRUD IAM actions

    CRUD managing tags

    CRUD actions managing service instances

* Report activity on CRUD actions on resources that do not access, or modify customer data, for example:

    Create a resource that does not include customer metadata such as create a toolchain

    Send a notification

* Report configuration changes to resources that do not access, or modify customer data, for example:

    Enable archiving

* Report activity on scheduled jobs that access or modify resources in the account, for example:

    Database backup scheduled job



You identify management events by the value of the field **dataEvent**. When this field is set to **false**, the event is a management event.

Management events are enabled in all the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} accounts. Some services, such as Watson services, require an upgrade of the service plan if you want to receive them.



## Data events
{: #event_types_data}

**Data events** report on actions where the initiator's request modifies, or operates on your data.

You identify data events by the value of the field **dataEvent**. When this field is set to **true**, the event is a data event.

Data events are enabled in all the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} accounts. However, there are some exceptions:
* Services that generates high volumes of data events require that you opt-in:

    {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}

    {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}}

    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}}

* Services might require a service plan to opt-in to data events, such as some Watson services.




## Global events
{: #event_types_global}

**Global events** report on activity in your account that relate to data and resources that are generally synchronized across all regions.
{: note}

Global events are generated by integrated platform services such as IAM.

The following services generate global events in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}:
* Integrated platform services fo managing account settings and resources such as service instances, users, billing, and tags
* {{site.data.keyword.iamlong}} (IAM)
* {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}
* {{site.data.keyword.dashdblong_notm}}
* {{site.data.keyword.tg_full}}
* {{site.data.keyword.dns_full}}
* {{site.data.keyword.cis_full}} (CIS)
* Content Delivery Network
* Provisioning
* Global Search Service
* Catalog Management
* Software instances
* Context-based restrictions
* {{site.data.keyword.mdms_short}}
* {{site.data.keyword.vmwaresolutions_short}}
* {{site.data.keyword.BluDirectLink}} solution

For more information on services generating global events, see [IBM Cloud services that generate Activity Tracker events](/docs/atracker?topic=atracker-atracker_cloud_services).

For {{site.data.keyword.atracker_short}}, you can choose the region where events are collected. [Learn more](/docs/atracker?topic=atracker-getting-started-routing#getting-started-routing-setp5).


For example, when account administrators invite users to join the account, they can do it from any {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} location. They might invite a user that is located in Frankfurt and grant this user permissions to work with a service that is provisioned in Dallas. Events that report on this type of action are considered global events and are available through the global domain in your account.

Or, you might provision or delete a service instance in a specific location. Although a service instance is created in a specific location, these types of actions are reported as global events to offer a single view of all the service instances that are provisioned across the account.



## Location-based events
{: #event_types_location}

**Location-based events** report on activity in your account that is generated by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services that are hosted within an {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} data center location, such as Dallas or Frankfurt.
{: note}

Location-based events maintain data locality to the services that run in that {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} location.
{: important}



## Exception: {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}
{: #event_types_cos}

In {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}, some management events are global events. Other management events are location-based events.

To see the list of actions that generate global management events, see [Global events](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-at-events#at-actions-global).

For example, the following are some actions that generate global events:
* List the buckets in the service instance.
* Create a bucket in the service instance.
* Delete a bucket in the service instance.
* Delete a Key Protect root encryption key.

[Learn more](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-at-events).
