---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2023
lastupdated: "2022-08-08"

keywords:

subcollection: atracker

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}



# Event fields
{: #event}

{{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} events are based on the Cloud Auditing Data Federation (CADF) standard.
{: shortdesc}

The CADF standard defines a full event model that includes the information that is needed to certify, manage, and audit security of applications in cloud environments.

The CADF event model includes the following components:

| Component | Description |
|------------|----------------------------|
| `Action`   | The action is the operation or activity that an initiator performs, attempts to perform, or is waiting to complete. |
| `Initiator`| The initiator is the resource that makes an API call and generates a CADF event. The event that is triggered depends on the action that is requested by the API call. |
| `Observer` | The observer is the resource that creates and stores a CADF record from information available in a CADF event. |
| `Outcome`  | The outcome is the status of the action against the target. |
| `Target`   | The target is the resource against which the action is performed, attempted to perform, or is pending to complete. |
{: caption="Table 1. Components that are available in a CADF event model" caption-side="top"}


The following fields are included in each Activity Tracker event:


## action (string)
{: #action_field}

This field indicates the action that triggers an event.

The format of this field is the following:

```text
serviceName.objectType.action
```
{: codeblock}

Where

* `servicename` is the name of the service.

    There is an exception on the `servicename` that is set for actions reported by the VPC infrastructure. The format of the `servicename` is composed of 2 parts that are separated by a dot (`.`).

* `objectType` describes the resource or resource attribute on which the action is requested.

* `action` defines the task requested by the initiator.

    Some valid actions are: `activate`, `add`, `bulkdelete`, `create`, `read`, `update`,`delete`, `backup`, `build`, `capture`, `clear`, `commit`, `configure`, `deploy`, `disable`, `enable`, `get`, `import`, `inspect`, `list`, `monitor`, `pull`, `push`, `restore`, `start`, `stop`, `undeploy`, `receive`, `reimport`, `remove`, `send`, `set`, `setkeyfordeletion`, `set-on`, `set-off`, `authenticate`, `renew`, `revoke`, `allow`, `deny`, `evaluate`, `notify`, `reset`, `rotate`, `ack-delete`, `ack-restore`, `ack-disable`, `ack-enable`, `ack-rotate`, `edit`, `publish`, `authorize`, `write`, `pause`, `resume`, `unsetkeyfordeletion`, `failover`, `split`

For more information about action values that are generated by services, see [Services generating events](/docs/activity-tracker?topic=activity-tracker-cloud_service#cloud_services).

For example, a sample action is `iam-am.policy.create`.


## correlationId (string)
{: #correlationId_field}

This field indicates the unique GUID that you can use to correlate events across multiple services in your account.


## dataEvent (boolean)
{: #dataEvent_field}

This field specifies the type of event, whether it is a management event or a data event.
- For a management event, this field is set to **false**.
- For a data event, this field is set to **true**.

## eventTime (string)
{: #eventTime_field}

This field indicates the timestamp when the event was created.

The timestamp that you see for an event in the UI is set from eventTime and indicates the time when the event was created.
{: note}

The date is represented as Universal Time Coordinated (UTC).

The format of this field is:

```text
YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.SS+0000
```
{: codeblock}

For example, a sample eventTime is `2017-10-19T19:07:50.32+0000`.



## Initiator fields
{: #initiator}

Initiator fields provide information about the user, service, or application that request to run an action in your account.


### initiator.id (string)
{: #initiator.id}

This field provides information about the ID of the initiator that requests the action.

You can find any of the following initiators:
* `IBM ID` for users that use an IAM token to trigger an action in your account.
* `Service ID` for services or applications that trigger an action in your account.
* `Cloud Foundry (CF) user ID` for users that use a UAA token to trigger an action in your account.
* `Certificate ID` for requests where a certificate is used to trigger an action in your account.
* `Profile ID` for requests that are run by using a trusted profile



### initiator.name (string)
{: #initiator.name}

This field provides information about the username of the initiator of the action.

This is the human readable name that corresponds to the `initiator.id` value.

When the initiator is an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} service, the field is set to `IBM` or the name of the service.


### initiator.authnId (string)
{: #initiator.authnId}

ID of the user that logs in to {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

### initiator.authnName (string)
{: #initiator.authnName}

Username of the user that logs in to {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

### initiator.typeURI (string)
{: #initiator.typeURI}

This field defines the type of the source of the event.

Valid values are:
- `service/security/account/user`
- `service/security/account/serviceid`,
- `service/security/client/certificateid`
- `service/security/clientid`



### initiator.credential.type (string)
{: #initiator.credential.type}

This field defines the type of credential that is used by the initiator to run the action.

Valid values are:
- `token`
- `user`
- `apikey`
- `certificate`
- `public-access`
- `hmac`
- `compute-resource`
- `instance-identity-token`
- `apikey-serviceid`
- `s2s-authorization`



### initiator.host.address (string)
{: #initiator.host.address}

This field provides information about the address where the request came from.

The format of this field is:

```text
xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```
{: codeblock}

For example, a sample `initiator.host.address` is `15.234.123.12`.

When the initiator of an action is an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} service, this field is set empty.
{: note}

### initiator.host.addressType (string)
{: #initiator.host.addresstype}

This field provides information about the type of IP address where the request came from.

Valid values are:
- `IPv4`
- `IPv6`
- `CSE`

The default value is `IPv4`.

### initiator.host.agent (string)
{: #initiator.host.agent}

This field provides information that you can use to identify where the request originated.



## logSourceCRN  (string)
{: #logSourceCRN}

This field defines the Cloud Resoiurce Name (CRN) of the resource on which the action is requested. For more information about the CRN format, see [Cloud Resource Names](/docs/account?topic=account-crn).




## message (string)
{: #message}

This field is set to the human-readable description of the event.

The format of this field is:

```text
serviceName: {event description} [outcome]
```
{: codeblock}

Where

* `servicename` indicates the name of the service.
* `{event description}` provides a human-readable version of the what the event is reporting.
* `outcome` is optional and is only included when the outcome of the request is `failure`.




## observer.name (string)
{: #observer_name_field}

This field is set to the fixed value **ActivityTracker**.


## outcome (string)
{: #outcome}

This field indicates the result of the action.

Valid values are: `success`, `pending`, or `failure`.


## Reason fields
{: #reason}

Reason fields provide information about the outcome of the request.


### reason.reasonCode (numeric)
{: #reason.reasonCode}

This field returns the HTTP response code of the action requested.

For example the `reason.reasonCode` field is set to:
- `403` to report forbidden access or unauthorized
- `409` to report conflict

### reason.reasonType (string)
{: #reason.reasonType}

This field provides additional information about the result of the action requested.

### reason.reasonForFailure (string)
{: #reason.reasonForFailure}

This field provides additional information as to why the action has failed.


## requestData (JSON)
{: #requestData}

When the field is available, it includes additional information about the request.

The information that is included in requestData is specific for each type of action. Check the [API documentation](/docs?tab=api-docs&) of a request to learn about some of the fields that may be included.


## responseData (JSON)
{: #responseData}

When the field is available, it includes additional information about the request.

The information that is included in responseData is specific for each type of action. Check the [API documentation](/docs?tab=api-docs&) of a request to learn about some of the fields that may be included.


## saveServiceCopy (boolean)
{: #saveServiceCopy}

This field determines whether the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} service that generates the event saves a copy of the event for {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} auditing.

When it is set to `true`, the service that generates the event saves a copy.


## severity (string)
{: #severity}

This field defines the level of threat an action may have on the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

Valid values are: `normal`, `warning`, and `critical`.

The following table describes how this field is set based on the type of action:

| Value      | Type of action | Sample of action |
|------------|----------------|------------------|
| `normal`   | Routine actions in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} | Start an instance |
| `warning`  | Actions that fail   \n Actions where a resource is updated or its metadata is modified | Rename a service instance |
| `critical` | Actions that affect security in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} such as changing credentials of a user or deleting data   \n Actions where the initiator is not authorized to work with an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resource | Delete a security key |
{: caption="Table 3. Severity values by type of action" caption-side="top"}

When the reasonCode for an API call is any of the following values, the value of severity is set as follows:

| reasonCode | description                   | severity       |
|------------|-------------------------------|----------------|
| `400`      | `Bad Request`                 | `warning`      |
| `401`      | `Unauthorized`                | `critical`     |
| `403`      | `Forbidden`                   | `critical`     |
| `409`      | `Conflict`                    | `warning`      |
| `424`      | `Failed Dependency`           | `warning`      |
| `500`      | `Internal Server Error`       | `warning`      |
| `502`      | `Bad Gateway`                 | `warning`      |
| `503`      | `Service Unavailable`         | `critical`     |
| `504`      | `Gateway Timeout`             | `warning`      |
| `505`      | `HTTP Version Not Supported`  | `warning`      |
| `507`      | `Insufficient Storage`        | `critical`     |
{: caption="Table 4. Severity value for some reason codes" caption-side="top"}


## Target fields
{: #target}

Target fields provide information about the resource that is accessed, created, updated, or deleted by the initiator's action in your account.


The following table lists common target fields that are available for each event:

| Field Name | Description | Value |
|------------|-------------|-------|
| `target.id` `[1]` | Cloud Resource Name (CRN) of the resource on which the action is executed. | For example, `crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/12345678e6232019c6567c9123456789:fr56et47-befb-440a-a223c-12345678dae1:bucket:bucket1` |
| `target.name` | Human-readable name of the resource on which the action is executed. |  |
| `target.typeURI` | Type of the cloud resource on which the action is executed. | For example, `iam-am/policy` or `cloud-object-storage/bucket/acl` |
| `target.host.address` | IP Address or URL of the target service |  |
{: caption="Table 5. Common target fields" caption-side="top"}

`[1]` For events that are generated by Cloud Foundry, the `target.id` is set to the GUID of the resource.

### target.id (string)
{: #target.id}

This field indicates the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resource on which the action is executed.

The format of this field is a **CRN**. For more information, see [CRN format](/docs/account?topic=account-crn).



### target.name (string)
{: #target.name}

This field indicates the human readable name of the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resource on which the action is executed.

Make sure that the name of resources does not include sensitive or PII data.

### target.alias (string)
{: #target.alias}

Set this value to the alias of the cloud resource that is used in the request and on which the action is executed.

This field is optional.

### target.typeURI (string)
{: #target.typeURI}

This field indicates the type of the target of the event.

The format of this field is:

```text
serviceName/objectType/attribute
```
{: codeblock}

Where

* `servicename` is the name of the service.
* `objectType` is the resource on which the action is run.

For example:

| action                                            | target.typeURI                                  |
|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| cloudcerts.certificate.import                     | cloudcerts/certificate                          |
| container-registry.namespace.create               | container-registry/namespace                    |
| kms.secrets.read                                  | kms/secrets                                     |
| cloud-object-storage.instance.create              | cloud-object-storage/instance                   |
| cloud-object-storage.object-multipart.create      | cloud-object-storage/object/multipart           |
{: caption="Table 6. target.typeURI examples" caption-side="top"}


### target.resourceGroupId (string)
{: #target.resourceGroupId}

Set to the resource group CRN that is associated with the resource on which the action is requested.
{: note}

This field only applies to events that are generated by services whose resources are associated with a resource group. For example, services that are global and cannot be provisioned within the context of a resource group do not include this field.



### target.host.address (string)
{: #target.host.address}

This field defines the IP Address or URL of the target service.

This field is optional.


## Labels and line identifiers
{: #labels}

Labels and line identifiers provide information about the service that is generating the event.

The following table outlines common labels and line identifiers that you can find in events:

| Area               | Label              | Description                                          | Event field name that you can use to search |
|--------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `IBM`              | `platform-service` | Service that generates the event                     | `_platform`      |
| `Line identifier`  | `Source`           | Service that generates the event                     | `host`           |
| `Line identifier`  | `Env`              | Environment: `production`                            | `env`            |
| `Line identifier`  | `App`              | CRN of the service instance in your account          | `app`            |
{: caption="Table 7. labels and line identifiers" caption-side="top"}
